README.rst, before:

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fcurti/currencyconverter/master/logo/logo.png

This is a pythonic currency converter REST API using cherryPy, just for fun.

The REST API is Dockerized using the provided Dockerfile.

Automated test is powered by python unittest suite.

Python 3.6 certified.

Currency data sources
---------------------

The exchange rate source in use is the `European Central Bank <https://www.ecb.europa.eu/stats/eurofxref/eurofxref-hist-90d.xml>`_.

It contains the last 90s days exchange rate.

The webapp dynamically retrieve the latest xml file at project startup time and reload the exchange rate resource each day automatically during the 1st daily user GET.


Installation
------------

You can install directly after cloning:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ python setup.py install --user
 
 
Run WebServer
------------

The python setup.py install the currencyConverter script in your home.
To be sure it runs please add ~.local/bin to the PATH

.. code-block:: bash

  $ export PATH=${PATH}:~.local/bin

.. code-block:: bash
 
  $ currencyConverter

  with log redirection
  $ currencyConverter > ./log/currencyConverter.log 2>&1 &
  
  
API reference
------------
 
The convert currency entry point

http://localhost:8080/convert

HTTP Parameters

* amount :: the amount to be converted (mandatory)
* src_currency :: the amount's currency (default EUR)
* dest_currency :: the currency to convert the amount (default USD)
* reference_date :: the reference date for the currency exchange rate in YYYY-MM-DD format ( default is today)

Some use cases


Convert 1 EUR in USD with today exchange rate

http://localhost:8080/convert?amount=1

Convert 1 EUR in USD using the exchange rate of 2010-09-28

http://localhost:8080/convert?amount=1&src_currency=EUR&dest_currency=USD&reference_date=2018-09-28

Date bad format

http://localhost:8080/convert?amount=10&src_currency=EUR&dest_currency=USD&reference_date=228

Currency does not exist

http://localhost:8080/convert?amount=10&src_currency=FL&dest_currency=BRR

No exchange rate for the provided date

http://localhost:8080/convert?amount=10&src_currency=EUR&dest_currency=USD&reference_date=2010-09-25


DOCKER
------

You may also run the currencyConverter API using docker.

Build the Docker image using the following command

.. code-block:: bash
 
  $ docker build -t fcurti/currencyconverter .
	
Run container

.. code-block:: bash
 
  $ docker run -tid -p 8080:8080 --name="currency_converter" fcurti/currencyconverter
  
Open browser @ this url

http://localhost:8080/convert?amount=1

Logs

.. code-block:: bash

  $ docker logs currency_converter
  
UNIT TEST
---------

Unit test are implemented in unitTest.py.

Run unit test typing the following

.. code-block:: bash
 
  $ python unitTest.py

Commit message:

Add assertion in UNIT TEST section

README.rst, after:

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fcurti/currencyconverter/master/logo/logo.png

This is a pythonic currency converter REST API using cherryPy, just for fun.

The REST API is Dockerized using the provided Dockerfile.

Automated test is powered by python unittest suite.

Python 3.6 certified.

Currency data sources
---------------------

The exchange rate source in use is the `European Central Bank <https://www.ecb.europa.eu/stats/eurofxref/eurofxref-hist-90d.xml>`_.

It contains the last 90s days exchange rate.

The webapp dynamically retrieve the latest xml file at project startup time and reload the exchange rate resource each day automatically during the 1st daily user GET.


Installation
------------

You can install directly after cloning:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ python setup.py install --user
 
 
Run WebServer
------------

The python setup.py install the currencyConverter script in your home.
To be sure it runs please add ~.local/bin to the PATH

.. code-block:: bash

  $ export PATH=${PATH}:~.local/bin

.. code-block:: bash
 
  $ currencyConverter

  with log redirection
  $ currencyConverter > ./log/currencyConverter.log 2>&1 &
  
  
API reference
------------
 
The convert currency entry point

http://localhost:8080/convert

HTTP Parameters

* amount :: the amount to be converted (mandatory)
* src_currency :: the amount's currency (default EUR)
* dest_currency :: the currency to convert the amount (default USD)
* reference_date :: the reference date for the currency exchange rate in YYYY-MM-DD format ( default is yesterday )

Some use cases


Convert 1 EUR in USD with today exchange rate

http://localhost:8080/convert?amount=1

Convert 1 EUR in USD using the exchange rate of 2010-09-28

http://localhost:8080/convert?amount=1&src_currency=EUR&dest_currency=USD&reference_date=2018-09-28

Date bad format

http://localhost:8080/convert?amount=10&src_currency=EUR&dest_currency=USD&reference_date=228

Currency does not exist

http://localhost:8080/convert?amount=10&src_currency=FL&dest_currency=BRR

No exchange rate for the provided date

http://localhost:8080/convert?amount=10&src_currency=EUR&dest_currency=USD&reference_date=2010-09-25


DOCKER
------

You may also run the currencyConverter API using docker.

Build the Docker image using the following command

.. code-block:: bash
 
  $ docker build -t fcurti/currencyconverter .
	
Run container

.. code-block:: bash
 
  $ docker run -tid -p 8080:8080 --name="currency_converter" fcurti/currencyconverter
  
Open browser @ this url

http://localhost:8080/convert?amount=1

Logs

.. code-block:: bash

  $ docker logs currency_converter
  
UNIT TEST
---------

Unit test are implemented in unitTest.py.

Assertion:

webServerRunning
  check if webServer is up & running
  
amountConverted
  check if the amount has been converted

badCurrency
  check if the provided src_currency is supported
  
Run unit test typing the following, using python version 3.6

.. code-block:: bash
 
  $ python unitTest.py
